+++
title = "Working From Home in 2024 and Beyond"
date = "2023-12-01"
draft = true
+++

As December rolls around, I'm beginning to look ahead to 2024 and the change in my life it will bring. I recently moved to New York City, left my job, traveled around the world, and now I've just accepted another job, all within the span of 3 months. 

Because my new job will be fully remote, I have been thinking about what it will mean to be working from home in a "post-COVID" world. Starting in 2020, I worked remotely full-time for Amazon during the peak of the pandemic. Remote work was new to (almost) everyone at the time, and we learned to accept change across many facets of the workplace experience. As the pandemic began to cool and it started to become safer to meet occasionally in person, my team started meeting periodically in the Seattle HQ offices. What began as a quarterly occurrence became a monthly one, then a weekly cadence, and then ended as a requirement to work from the office at least 3 days a week.

During this transformation, one of the things that I found most interesting was the tension between the costs and benefits of remote work. On one hand, fully remote work is isolating, and can be lonely at times. On the other, it allows each of us to fully tailor the world around us to our own preferences, keeping us in a sort of comfort zone. This much space can also be enticing when seeking more autonomy with your work and freedom from the type of red tape that seems endemic to large corporations. 

When I started looking for a new job, I kept my options open to any mix of remote, hybrid, or on-site work. The obvious advantage to working on-site more often in NYC being that the living spaces are so much tighter than other cities in the US. However, in the end I landed with a Bay Area pharmacy technology startup called NimbleRx because of their strong remote-first culture (meaning that communication won't be splintered between in-office and remote workers), autonomy in strategy for facing technical challenges, and collection of experienced, curious engineers to learn from. When it came down to it, these factors all took precedence over the detail of being remote or on-site. To me, the people you work with and the things you work on are much more important in a job than where I'm doing it all.

Looking forward to 2024, I'm excited to use my fully remote flexibility to travel more, spend more weekends visiting my friends and family, and to move freely around New York City in my first year living here. While I won't get any real social group through my job, it's quite easy to make friends in a city with a population of 20 million in its metro region. We all learned ways to make satisfy that for ourselves during the peek of the pandemic, so my goal for the new year is to take these lessons forward and continue to embrace the newness and spontaneity of this city.